Developing java apps notes-

lec 12: Activities packages and layouts

Andoroid apps are a collection of connected components.
There are 4 types of components:
1. Activity
2. Service
3. contents provider
4. Broadcast reciever

ACTIVITY:
1. Activites are the components that are responsible for most app-user interaction.
2. They are meant to be a single focused thing a user can do.
3. They are responsible for creating the window that your application uses to draw and receive events from the system.
4. From the users POV the an android application is a series of activities.
5. The app stores these activities in a stack. When the user presses the back button the app shows the previous activity in the stack.

HOW ACTIVITIES ARE REGISTERED:
In the android manifest file, inside the application tag there is an activity tag and inside that tag there is an intent-filter tag, inside it the activities are registered.

LAYOUTS:
1. Activites have layouts that define what to show where.
2. An activity creates views to show the user information, and to let the user interact with the activity.
3. An activity determines what views to create (and where to put them), by reading an XML layout file.
4. XML: Is a language that allows us to store information in a manner that is readable by both humans and machines


Exercise 2:
id syntax: android:id="@+id/et_search_box"
@ symbol: tells the IDE that the stuff inside the qoutes is not a normal string
+ sign: tells the IDE to create a new ID
id: tells the IDE that we are creating an ID

LOGGING:
1. Devs use log messages to communicate info abt their apps.
2. Log messages belong to one of the following LEVELS:
    2.1. WTF (What a Terrible Failure)( Rarely used(Hopefully))
    2.2. Error \
    2.3. Warn  -  Three of them are preserved in the release version of the application. They are used to capture and diagnose problems.
    2.4. Info /
    2.5. Debug   \
                  - Both of these are used in dev version of the app.
    2.6. Verbose /

3. All apps dump their logs in the same bucket.
4. The syntax for logs is: Log.x(String TAG, String Message) TAG is usually a class name
5. ERROR - This level is used to log obvious errors
6. WARN - This level is used log things that do not cause the app to error or crash, but are still of concern. For example low disk storage availability.
7. INFO - Purely informational messages like : The app is connected to the internet.
8. DEBUG - Used during development to log things like the response from a web service, etc.
9. VERBOSE - Used to record very granular details.
10. WTF - For errors that are much more severe than Error. For example an error that makes your device hang.